Editorial review: Document local network access (#43575)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/request/targetaddressspace/index.md

---
title: "Request: targetAddressSpace property"
short-title: targetAddressSpace
slug: Web/API/Request/targetAddressSpace
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.Request.targetAddressSpace
---

{{APIRef("Fetch API")}}{{AvailableInWorkers}}

> The read-only **`targetAddressSpace`** property of the {{DOMxRef("Request")}} interface returns the request's target address space, which indicates whether it is intended to be a loopback, local, or public request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`targetAddressSpace`** read-only property of the {{DOMxRef("Request")}} interface returns the request's target address space, which indicates whether it is intended to be a loopback, local, or public request.
```

## Value

An enumerated value, which can be one of:

- `local`
  - : The request is to a local address, which is only accessible on the local network; its target will differ on different networks. For example, `192.168.0.1`.
- `loopback`
  - : The request is to a loopback address, which is only accessible on the local device; its target will differ on every device. For example, `127.0.0.1`, which is generally known as `localhost`.
- `public`
  - : The request is to an address available from anywhere on the internet; its target is the same for all devices globally. For example, `104.18.27.120` (the IP address of `example.com`)
- `unknown`
  - : No `targetAddressSpace` was set on the request.

## Description

> In browsers that support [Local Network Access](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Local_network_access), loopback and local requests are gated behind specific permissions — `local-network` and `loopback-network`, respectively. Requiring user permissions for such requests mitigates the risk of [cross-site request forgery (CSRF)](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/CSRF) attacks against local network devices such as routers and printers, and reduces the ability of sites to use these requests to fingerprint the user's local network.

Reviewer: This just caught my eye:

> In browsers that support [Local Network Access](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Local_network_access), loopback and local requests are gated behind specific permissions

Here "Local Network Access" is a specification, and it is correct. 
But in English it reads as "In browsers that let you access the local network" - and that is very wrong, because it would mean LNA was implemented everywhere.

Something to think about..

Author: I totally agree that this could create a bit of confusion. I've gone through the PR and updated this instance and ones like it.

> This permission is restricted to secure contexts. If granted, the permissions additionally relax [mixed content](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Mixed_content) blocking for local network requests. This is useful because many local devices are not able to obtain publicly trusted TLS certificates for various reasons. For example, it allows public websites to access local testing servers or devices running on HTTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These permissions are restricted to secure contexts. If granted, the permissions additionally relax [mixed content](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Mixed_content) blocking for local network requests. This is needed because many local devices are not able to obtain publicly trusted TLS certificates for various reasons. For example, it allows public websites to access local testing servers or devices running on HTTP.
```

The `targetAddressSpace` property, when set to `local` or `loopback` on new requests (via the {{domxref("Request.Request", "Request()")}} constructor or directly in the {{domxref("Window.fetch", "fetch()")}} method), explicitly tells supporting browsers to skip mixed content checks. This is needed in cases where a URL is a public domain address, but ends up resolving to a local network address, such as `http://internal.example.com`.

> Some addresses such as private IP literals (for example, `192.168.0.1`) and `local` addresses (such as `http://router.local`) are exempt from mixed content checks, so don't need the `targetAddressSpace` property to be set.

Reviewer 2: This could be misconstrued. These IP's aren't exempt from mixed content checks, its that if a request to a private IP literal is considered an LNA request with permission, the mixed content requirement will be relaxted.

If LNA isn't relevant, then the mixed content check still applies (e.g. https://192.168.1.1 tried to use a resource from http://192.168.1.12 would still be blocked by mixed content )

Author: OK, I've tried rewriting this as :

> Some addresses, such as private IP literals (for example, `192.168.0.1`) and `.local` addresses (such as `http://router.local`), have mixed content checks relaxed in cases where local network access permissions are granted, so don't need the `targetAddressSpace` property to be set. However, if local network access permissions are not granted, mixed content checks still apply, regardless of whether `targetAddressSpace` is set or not.

Does that make sense?

Reviewer 2: Yep, that makes sense!
